0. Antarctica is the southernmost continent on Earth, but it is not actually a country.
1. Since there is not a single government in charge of Antarctica, it is protected by a treaty signed by many other countries.
2. Those countries have agreed to peacefully protect this amazing piece of land for scientific discovery.
3. This is part of the reason why Antarctica has been such an exciting territory for geographic exploration.
4. Antarctica is a land of extremes. It has the highest elevation, the coldest temperatures, and the most ice out of any other location on earth.
5. Ice sheets and glaciers cover the territory, and despite this, Antarctica is still considered a cold, dry desert.
6. One hundred years ago, there were many expeditions led by adventurous explorers to learn more about what Antarctica had to offer.
7. This period became known as the Heroic Era of Antarctic Exploration.
8. One of the most famous Antarctic explorers was named Ernest Shackleton. He led three separate expeditions to Antarctica.
9. Shackleton set several records for exploration during the height of his career, including being one of the first people to drive a car in Antarctica.
10. Shackleton was not only known for his bravery, but for his courageous leadership, too.
11. On his most famous expedition, Shackleton led his crew on a ship called the Endurance.
12. It eventually became trapped in ice, remaining stuck for more than a year.
13. When Shackleton realized the extent of the damage, he ordered his crew to abandon the ship, pile into lifeboats, and seek safety.
14. The ship eventually sank. But all twenty seven people in his crew were saved thanks to his ability to make good decisions under pressure.
15. While this ship was lost to history for many years, it was found just last year in another Antarctic exploration.
16. New tools, like data collecting robots, helped the ship be discovered.
17. Even though Shackleton paved the way for much of what we know about Antarctica today, we still have much to learn about this fascinating environment.